# FinalFrontierGame
Final Frontier is a fun interactive game that uses the LibGDX framework and the java programming language. This game also uses the gradle build automation tool.  
The General Idea
Final Frontier is an action packed survival game where the player is pitted against an unknown alien entity who will always try to stop the player from landing on their planet. Each planet the player enters will have a formidable force of aliens shooting projectiles to try and stop the player from landing. Although, the player cannot shoot back they are lucky enough to have floating pads that will shield them from incoming fire. Each time the player takes damage, landing the rocket will become more and more impossible until the rocket explodes.
Gameplay Mode
Setting
In the year 3001 humans have ventured deep into the universe to expand our knowledge and search for new planets to surveil.  Although, the mission is peaceful, alien lifeforms have felt threatened by humanities growing power and dominance over the cosmos and formed a coalition to stop our expansion and destroy our surveillance spacecraft. New information has suggested that the aliens are using odd projectiles that seem to only damage our crafts slightly but could be devastating if enough successfully strike our crafts. However, a new rocket has been made that can handle more projectile hits and can be fitted with a protective shield that can repel any blast. These ships are called Earth Surveillance Ships and only one person is bold enough to test them out and see the mission of knowledge through and through. The player is captain of the spacecraft ESS-1 the first of its kind and will have a third-person perspective achieved through state-of-the-art technology to view his rocket from outside his ship to land surveillance rockets that detach from his craft. Luckily, UEC (United Earth Federation) is well aware of the potential danger and have provided ESS-1 with new technology to defend against the alien projectiles including strong barriers the player can land on prior to his final descent. The player must land his spacecraft on a UEF landing pad using the up , left and right arrow keys and ensure the speed of the descent is slow enough for a successful landing. Moreover, the player must ensure ESS-1 lands in one piece to go on to surveil more planets and show the formidableness of the human race. The mission is for the betterment of humanity and UEF will never stop to expand their knowledge and create a peaceful universe for everyone.
1. ESS-1
ESS-1 or Earth Space Surveillance is a newly created rocket that will aid the player in landing on dangerous planets.
The rocket is fitted with thrusters to push the player up, to the left and to the right. These thrusters will aid the player on landing their rocket at a safe speed to ensure the rocket is not damaged on impact.
ESS-1 can be fitted with new shield technology. An ESS-1 shield can repel any projectile, but with the sophistication of the technology the use is limited for only a short amount of time. 
2. Planet Barriers
Another amazing technology developed by the great scientist from UEF that are fitted with a strong protective coating to protect the player. These barriers will be placed randomly throughout the map and will aid the player from alien projectiles that are aiming for their ship.
Although, an ally to ESS-1 the planet barriers do come with a potential hazard. If the player were to land on the barrier to hard, they can suffer a crash much like if they were to land on an UEF landing pad.
3. Challenges - Alien Projectile
The newly formed alien coalition have an unknown array of technology. However, new intelligence suggests they are using odd looking projectiles that will only damage ESS-1 slightly but can destroy the ship if the player is not too careful. Asteroids may also appear from all sides of the screen that ESS-1 will have to avoid impacting before landing.
4. Perspectives and Interaction Model - Movement 
The player can move ESS-1 by either clicking the up, left, and right arrow keys. ESS-1 thrusters will only move the ship slightly up, left or to the right. The player will have to determine the appropriate position they wish to descend so a crash will not happen. The space key will allow player to pause the game. The mouse interaction will not be implemented so the ESS-1 lander will not be able to be moved by the mouse. 
5. Actions - UEF Landing Pads 
UEF landing pads are the staging grounds for all surveillance operations. Each are fitted with advanced technology to shield from any incoming attacks and the player must land ESS-1 on one of these pads for their mission to be successful.
